doc/src/tutorial/008_error_recovery.md, before:

# Error recovery

By default, the parser will stop as soon as it encounters an error.
Sometimes though we would like to try and recover and keep going.
LALRPOP can support this, but you have to help it by defining various
"error recovery" points in your grammar. This is done by using a
special `!` token: this token only occurs when the parser
encounters an error in the input. When an error does occur, the parser
will try to recover and keep going; it does this by injecting the
`!` token into the stream, executing any actions that it can, and
then dropping input tokens until it finds something that lets it
continue.

Let's see how we can use error recovery to attempt to find multiple
errors during parsing. First we need a way to return multiple errors
as this is not something that LALRPOP does by itself so we add a `Vec`
storing the errors we found during parsing. Since the result of `!`
contains a token, error recovery requires that tokens can be cloned.
We need to replace the begin "grammar" line of the LALRPOP file with this:

```lalrpop
use lalrpop_util::ErrorRecovery;

grammar<'err>(errors: &'err mut Vec<ErrorRecovery<usize, Token<'input>, &'static str>>);
```

The ErrorRecovery struct wraps ParseError to add a second field referencing the
skipped characters.

Since an alternative containing `!` is expected to return the same type of
value as the other alternatives in the production we add an extra variant to
`Expr` to indicate that an error was found.

```rust
pub enum Expr {
    Number(i32),
    Op(Box<Expr>, Opcode, Box<Expr>),
    Error,
}
```

Finally we modify the grammar, adding a third alternative containing `!`
which simply stores the `ErrorRecovery` value received from `!` in `errors` and
returns an `Expr::Error`. The value of the error token will be a [`ParseError`
value](https://docs.rs/lalrpop-util/0.12.1/lalrpop_util/enum.ParseError.html).
You can find the full source in [calculator7].

```lalrpop
Term: Box<Expr> = {
    Num => Box::new(Expr::Number(<>)),
    "(" <Expr> ")",
    ! => { errors.push(<>); Box::new(Expr::Error) },
};
```

Now we can add a test that includes various errors (e.g., missing
operands). Note that now the `parse` method takes two arguments
instead of one, which is caused by that we rewrote the "grammar" line
in the LALRPOP file. You can see that the parser recovered from missing
operands by inserting this `!` token where necessary.

```rust
#[test]
fn calculator7() {
    let mut errors = Vec::new();

    let expr = calculator7::ExprsParser::new()
        .parse(&mut errors, "22 * + 3")
        .unwrap();
    assert_eq!(&format!("{:?}", expr), "[((22 * error) + 3)]");

    let expr = calculator7::ExprsParser::new()
        .parse(&mut errors, "22 * 44 + 66, *3")
        .unwrap();
    assert_eq!(&format!("{:?}", expr), "[((22 * 44) + 66), (error * 3)]");

    let expr = calculator7::ExprsParser::new()
        .parse(&mut errors, "*")
        .unwrap();
    assert_eq!(&format!("{:?}", expr), "[(error * error)]");

    assert_eq!(errors.len(), 4);
}
```

[calculator7]: https://github.com/lalrpop/lalrpop/blob/master/doc/calculator/src/calculator7.lalrpop

Commit message:

Add doc to handle lexical error in error recovery (#1000)
* Add doc to handle lexical error in error recovery

Fix lint nits in doc

Fix line length exceeds

Fix line length again

* Clarify the functional details and clean up grammar.

---------

Co-authored-by: Daniel Burgener <Daniel.Burgener@microsoft.com>

doc/src/tutorial/008_error_recovery.md, after:

# Error recovery

By default, the parser will stop as soon as it encounters an error.
Sometimes though we would like to try and recover and keep going.
LALRPOP can support this, but you have to help it by defining various
"error recovery" points in your grammar. This is done by using a
special `!` token: this token only occurs when the parser
encounters an error in the input. When an error does occur, the parser
will try to recover and keep going; it does this by injecting the
`!` token into the stream, executing any actions that it can, and
then dropping input tokens until it finds something that lets it
continue.

Let's see how we can use error recovery to attempt to find multiple
errors during parsing. First we need a way to return multiple errors
as this is not something that LALRPOP does by itself so we add a `Vec`
storing the errors we found during parsing. Since the result of `!`
contains a token, error recovery requires that tokens can be cloned.
We need to replace the begin "grammar" line of the LALRPOP file with this:

```lalrpop
use lalrpop_util::ErrorRecovery;

grammar<'err>(errors: &'err mut Vec<ErrorRecovery<usize, Token<'input>, &'static str>>);
```

The ErrorRecovery struct wraps ParseError to add a second field referencing the
skipped characters.

Since an alternative containing `!` is expected to return the same type of
value as the other alternatives in the production we add an extra variant to
`Expr` to indicate that an error was found.

```rust
pub enum Expr {
    Number(i32),
    Op(Box<Expr>, Opcode, Box<Expr>),
    Error,
}
```

Finally we modify the grammar, adding a third alternative containing `!`
which simply stores the `ErrorRecovery` value received from `!` in `errors` and
returns an `Expr::Error`. The value of the error token will be a [`ParseError`
value](https://docs.rs/lalrpop-util/0.12.1/lalrpop_util/enum.ParseError.html).
You can find the full source in [calculator7].

```lalrpop
Term: Box<Expr> = {
    Num => Box::new(Expr::Number(<>)),
    "(" <Expr> ")",
    ! => { errors.push(<>); Box::new(Expr::Error) },
};
```

Now we can add a test that includes various errors (e.g., missing
operands). Note that now the `parse` method takes two arguments
instead of one, which is caused by that we rewrote the "grammar" line
in the LALRPOP file. You can see that the parser recovered from missing
operands by inserting this `!` token where necessary.

```rust
#[test]
fn calculator7() {
    let mut errors = Vec::new();

    let expr = calculator7::ExprsParser::new()
        .parse(&mut errors, "22 * + 3")
        .unwrap();
    assert_eq!(&format!("{:?}", expr), "[((22 * error) + 3)]");

    let expr = calculator7::ExprsParser::new()
        .parse(&mut errors, "22 * 44 + 66, *3")
        .unwrap();
    assert_eq!(&format!("{:?}", expr), "[((22 * 44) + 66), (error * 3)]");

    let expr = calculator7::ExprsParser::new()
        .parse(&mut errors, "*")
        .unwrap();
    assert_eq!(&format!("{:?}", expr), "[(error * error)]");

    assert_eq!(errors.len(), 4);
}
```

Error recovery can only handle errors reported at the parser level, not the
lexer level.  This means that an "InvalidToken" error (or similar from a custom
lexer) will not be recoverable.  In order to recover from lexer errors, you can
add an `Error` token to the lexer, and rather than returning a lexer error,
return a valid `Error` token.  A worked example for [custom lexer]s is
available in the book.  The same approach will work for the built in lexer as
well.

[custom lexer]: https://lalrpop.github.io/lalrpop/lexer_tutorial/006_error_recovery_custom_lexer.html

[calculator7]: https://github.com/lalrpop/lalrpop/blob/master/doc/calculator/src/calculator7.lalrpop
