doc/src/cheatsheet.md, before:

# Cheatsheet

Users of Lalrpop have compiled the following cheatsheet table as a quick way to
look up useful Lalrpop-isms. If you are looking for a specific piece of
functionality, use this table to jump to the right section.

| name | snippet | description | tutorial |
|---|---|---|---|
| position | `<left: @L> T <right: @R>` | captures the offset of the first byte and the offset of the last byte plus one (as `left` and `right` respectively) | [Location tracking](location_tracking.md) |
| error_recovery | `! => { ... }` | recovers from parser errors | [Error recovery](tutorial/008_error_recovery.md) |
| grammar_parameter | `grammar(scale: isize);` | input parameters usable in the generated parser | [Passing state parameter](tutorial/009_state_parameter.md) |
| custom_error | `"e" =>? Err(ParseError::User { error: "an error" })` | makes an action fallible | [Fallible actions](tutorial/007_fallible_actions.md) |
| custom_macros | `Comma<T> =  { ... }` | makes a non-terminal generic in other non-terminals | [Macros](tutorial/006_macros.md) |
| quantifier_macros | `<Num?> <Num*> <Num+>` |  a non-terminal which can appear 0..1, 0+, 1+ times | [Macros](tutorial/006_macros.md) |
| tuple_macro | `<a:(<Num> ",")*>` | applies a quantifier to a group of matches | [Macros](tutorial/006_macros.md) |
| extern | `extern { }` | allows to override some parts of the generated parser | [Writing a custom lexer](lexer_tutorial/003_writing_custom_lexer.md) |
| extern_error | `type Error = MyError;` | sets the error to use in the `ParseError::User` variant | [Writing a custom lexer](lexer_tutorial/003_writing_custom_lexer.md) |
| extern_location | `type Location = MyLoc;` | sets the type to for locations instead of `usize` | [Writing a custom lexer](lexer_tutorial/003_writing_custom_lexer.md) |
| extern_tok | `enum MyToken { }` | declares the type of lexer tokens to be consumed by the generated parser  | [Using tokens with references](lexer_tutorial/004_token_references.md) |
| auto_parameters | `<>` | refers to all the parameters of the non-terminal as a tuple | [Type inference](tutorial/003_type_inference.md) |
|conditional actions | `Expr<I> = { ... , <T> if I == "a" => (), ...}` | Conditional definition of a macro's alternative | [index pointer](tutorial/index.md) |
|precedence| `#[precedence(level="0")]` | creates a hierarchy to parser actions for which ones should be applied first | [Handling full expressions](tutorial/004_full_expressions.md) |

Commit message:

Support pattern of arguments in grammar (#1067)
* wip: support arg pattern in grammar

* Support patterns in arguments with test

* Update digest of lrgrammar

* Document pattern parameters

* resolve issues... optimizing the grammar

* move arg pattern down to symbol1

* cargo fmt --all

* fix: move to symbol

* enable check for tuples

* clippy --all

* fix: remove extra check for alternatives and move validate_tuple outside

* refactor: move validation inside

* refactor: tupleitem and validate

* feat: add unary tuple

* fix clippy

* fix & test: tuple validation returns error if mismatched

* revert unary tuple

doc/src/cheatsheet.md, after:

# Cheatsheet

Users of Lalrpop have compiled the following cheatsheet table as a quick way to
look up useful Lalrpop-isms. If you are looking for a specific piece of
functionality, use this table to jump to the right section.

| name | snippet | description | tutorial |
|---|---|---|---|
| position | `<left: @L> T <right: @R>` | captures the offset of the first byte and the offset of the last byte plus one (as `left` and `right` respectively) | [Location tracking](location_tracking.md) |
| error_recovery | `! => { ... }` | recovers from parser errors | [Error recovery](tutorial/008_error_recovery.md) |
| grammar_parameter | `grammar(scale: isize);` | input parameters usable in the generated parser | [Passing state parameter](tutorial/009_state_parameter.md) |
| custom_error | `"e" =>? Err(ParseError::User { error: "an error" })` | makes an action fallible | [Fallible actions](tutorial/007_fallible_actions.md) |
| custom_macros | `Comma<T> =  { ... }` | makes a non-terminal generic in other non-terminals | [Macros](tutorial/006_macros.md) |
| quantifier_macros | `<Num?> <Num*> <Num+>` |  a non-terminal which can appear 0..1, 0+, 1+ times | [Macros](tutorial/006_macros.md) |
| tuple_macro | `<a:(<Num> ",")*>` | applies a quantifier to a group of matches | [Macros](tutorial/006_macros.md) |
| extern | `extern { }` | allows to override some parts of the generated parser | [Writing a custom lexer](lexer_tutorial/003_writing_custom_lexer.md) |
| extern_error | `type Error = MyError;` | sets the error to use in the `ParseError::User` variant | [Writing a custom lexer](lexer_tutorial/003_writing_custom_lexer.md) |
| extern_location | `type Location = MyLoc;` | sets the type to for locations instead of `usize` | [Writing a custom lexer](lexer_tutorial/003_writing_custom_lexer.md) |
| extern_tok | `enum MyToken { }` | declares the type of lexer tokens to be consumed by the generated parser  | [Using tokens with references](lexer_tutorial/004_token_references.md) |
| auto_parameters | `<>` | refers to all the parameters of the non-terminal as a tuple | [Type inference](tutorial/003_type_inference.md) |
| tuple_parameters | `<(a, b, c):Foo>` | unwraps tuple returns of non-terminal to parameters | [Type inference](tutorial/003_type_inference.md) |
|conditional actions | `Expr<I> = { ... , <T> if I == "a" => (), ...}` | Conditional definition of a macro's alternative | [index pointer](tutorial/index.md) |
|precedence| `#[precedence(level="0")]` | creates a hierarchy to parser actions for which ones should be applied first | [Handling full expressions](tutorial/004_full_expressions.md) |
